# nadja0607.github.io

IM Portfolio

Communications Lab / Interactive Media - Fall 2020 NYU AD
Professor: Michael Ang
Student: Nadja Fejzic - nf1108

Project Name: IM Portfolio & 30-minute Film Festival (30FF)

Project Description:
At this initial phase, this project mainly focuses on 30FF presentation. It consists of the main portfolio page that will be used to present all the projects we will be doing throught the semester. For now, 30FF is the only available one. Once you reach the 30FF homepage, you are able to visit other different related pages, such as Team, Behind the Scenes, you are able to watch the movie my team and I created for this specific purpose. There is also the Contact page that has some of my social media links as well as the email address. The overall concept is to reflect the festival. The theme is focused on black and bright pink so the users can associate it with the cinema experience. The story of our film is 'What Do People Do?' in 2020 Quarantine. For the title I used the font that resembles a hand-writing. Since the movie trully portrates what we have been doing in the isolation/quarantile in this global covid pandemic, I included behind the scenes page that tells people, in a fun way, that there was no acting in the movie - since it's the real representation of us. I used black background most of the time to really grab attention on the letters, text and the movie itself. Without other distractions, and the black screen, it feels like being in a cinema in way. And people do miss cinemas, at least I do. Moreover, feel free to read the short biographies of our team.

Process:
The project is live on Github pages and can be found here: https://nadja0607.github.io/
During the process, I watched lots of YouTube videos to get an idea and to improve my knowledge about the web-development. I definitely think that class material was super helpful.

Reflection/Evaluation: The initial concept was to make a bright neon color page with a navigation system within the same page. However I liked the final idea better. My expectations were to have a webpage that presents the work of my team on this short movie. I didn't really have much of html/css experience before so I really enjoed the making process and I think I definitely improved my knowledge. I know I'm not the world's most creative person, but I was happy to see that I was able to build this final working version and connect my different pages together. It was enjoyable to work with JavaScript as I could see how we can actually interact with the whole html file, the style itself and make the web interactive. I'd say my goals and expectations are met but I'd like to learn more about how to make it fully responsive.

PROJECT 2
Comix
Project Name: “Wake-up, Zoom, Sleep, Repeat”

Project Description: For this assignment, we had to create an interactive comic using 2D software such as Adobe Illustrator and/or Photoshop to create the content. Our group decided to create something relatable and close to us at the moment. Our simple web comic goes through the daily life of an NYUAD student “Robyn” (arbitrarily chosen name) on campus during the remote semester. The story begins with a sunrise and the general daily routine involves waking up, having breakfast, zoom, lunch, zoom, dinner, shower, and sleep (and the process repeats every day, hence the project name).

One of our main goals is to highlight the repetitive nature of this lifestyle both during the day and between days. The other is to portray how the excessive increased screen time that comes with online-learning (among other activities that are not remote due to the pandemic) makes us feel as if we are always in front of our laptops/computers. Although most students are not on campus, this story is just one variation of a semester of online-learning during the COVID-19 pandemic, and incorporates elements that most can relate to regardless of where they are currently taking their classes from. The daily life of Robyn is portrayed as very mundane and habitual as these are the daily tasks that most people would be able to relate to. We wanted the audience to be able to fill in their own daily experiences in specific gaps such as the space between panels (so the audience goes through one panel at a time and can imagine the day ahead or reflect on what has passed) as well as minor details in the story line we intentionally chose to leave out.

We also wanted to take advantage of the medium the comic is delivered in. In conventional comics, multiple panels are arranged in one page at a time such that the reader goes through the horizontal and vertical panels in a specific chronological order. In a webpage, we are not confined to the specific horizontal and vertical dimensions (we can even scroll past the size of our screen) so we wanted to use the scrolling to our advantage and tell our story in a specific chronological sequence: one panel at a time.

As per McCloud, it can be difficult to depict motion and represent sounds in conventional comics. Once again, we adapted these comic principles by adding actual animations and sounds as an interactive component instead of motion lines and onomatopoeias. However, we still wanted to keep some more conventional principles such as the comic narration box with a very comics-reminiscent font style. We specifically chose these instead of speech bubbles even though the story is told in first person because Robyn is narrating her own story, not necessarily speaking in them. We also keep the dialogue slightly general so that it works for repeated days and any days.

Process: The first panel acts almost as an introduction with the sun coming out and marks a classic beginning of the story. The panel backgrounds in the first half are all new and fresh but then begin to repeat in the latter half. At the end of the day, the “Next Day” button also takes the audience back to the beginning of the same page. Here, we aim to show how the repetitiveness doesn’t stop when the day ends but continues as most days feel the same.

Our protagonist “Robyn” is also mostly seen in only one-perspective – kind of like how we see someone through a webcam. Even in panel events that do not normally require us to be in front of the computer, we intentionally did not change the perspective of the character in the comic. We wanted to depict how the pandemic which has led to a switch from most in-person activities to online, such as with classes, does not only affect us during those times in front of the screen but has (in a way) consumed almost every aspect of our life – or at least that is what it feels like. Excluding the sunrise panel (panel 1), our zoom panel is the only exception to this character perspective we have set.

Additionally, the protagonist is not very detailed and exhibits only a limited number of emotions since her environment is so static and also because we wanted her to be a consistent and familiar feature of the panels that the reader can relate to and fill in emotions from their own experiences. However, the comic is still a light-hearted piece instead of one with a darker theme as the protagonist appears to be learning to manage their lifestyle.

The major interactivity feature is the animate on scroll (AOS) since it does not distract too much from the story but also gives a unique look to each panel. We wanted the audience to be able to re-experience the story as many times as they wanted since on re-scrolling you can get the same interaction. The audience can also play/stop sounds by clicking on specific objects. We chose to add sound this way instead of auto playing as the audience scrolls through each panel to not only add some more interactivity where the audience gets to “discover” the sounds but also to provide more control over which sounds are played and when. For objects that can play sounds, we made it so that when the cursor hovers over them it becomes a pointer, indicating that it is a clickable object. This works off the assumption that most people are familiar that the hand/pointer cursor traditionally indicates click, though we added some instructions in the first text box just to be clear.

Reflection/Evaluation: The initial web comic plan was to keep the character fixed in one position and keep changing the background as well as facial expressions. However, that appeared to be much harder and less consistent with our goal of a more relatable character so we had to adapt. It is worth mentioning that the same positioning took 3 completely different attempts and writing a script to come up with the final working version that looks appealing and satisfying. We constantly had to change how much we wanted to input into the panels and how much we wanted to leave open to readers’ interpretation. For instance, the starting idea was not to narrate the story but let the audience scroll through it without words. However, we felt that the storytelling component and our character’s presence may be too weak so we added narration boxes reminiscent of comics and it worked to give the panels a more comic-like look.

Initially, we had planned to only do original artwork for the background and main character while using cartoonish object images from the internet. However, we soon realized that between matching each object to the art style of our original work and figuring out image licensing, it was more worthwhile to do the majority of object artwork ourselves also, primarily using Adobe Illustrator. This was a fun but time consuming process.

Perhaps the part that went most smoothly was including animations via the animate on scroll library though it had its limitations in where the animations were anchored. Some of the “movement” in the panels including the rising sun and lifting dumbbell are not scroll dependent animation because they were too crucial in the storytelling for their panel and we wanted to fix their interaction with the protagonist and the reader. We decided to add sounds at a later stage of the process to give it some more “click-adventure” feels and increase the potential interactivity and re-readability of the comic. We were able to achieve the amount of control we wanted to give the reader over when sounds play.

On the other hand, css positioning remained a struggle especially for the initial part of the project. Instead of layering background and character images, we decided to merge them into one for easier manuevaribility. We also had to experiment with z-index to control visibility relation between different layered images. Objects would also move around in resizing so in the end, we decided to limit the amount of resizing possible with the panels to preserve their look and encourage readers to fully participate and interact with the comic. It is worth recognizing that it helped to have an XD framework for storyboarding, especially when different people were simultaneously working on different components of the project.

To conclude, we truly enjoyed working on this comic project and by keeping our goals flexible and slowly building on what elements of story and interactivity we wanted to include, we were able to make a comic that incorporates the classic and the web designs, and that we really like!

Ariya Chaloemtoem, Khola Jamshad, Nadja Fejzic 27/10/2020

Project 3: Aural Pages: Cherished

Project Description:
In this project, we mainly wanted to auditorily present things that we cherished . For Yoki, it’s travelling; for Treedom, it’s photography; for Quim, it’s playing the guitar; and for Nadja, it’s dancing. These things are the sources of happiness and energy to us, so recording the sound related to these things works as a recollection and reminisce. The audio projects that we created demonstrate why these things are important to us.
We use black, white, and grey as the major colors to create a sense of antiquity, echoing the theme of “memory”. When users hover over to listen to the story, the picture will turn into a colored one, resembling the revitalization of the past memory. We want the users to sense the tranquility of the memory, and the passion towards the cherished.

Process:
We started by brainstorming a way to make us better work individually first and then combine our work. What we first wanted to do was an instrument project, but not all of us learned a musical instrument, so we agreed on the idea of broadening the range to a certain item or hobby that was important to us. Then we went on and divided into four parts: photography, traveling, dancing, and guitar. The audio we attempted to produce aimed to evoke our beautiful memory in our minds. We recorded some original audio clips which might be a short story or a fragment that impressed us most. We hope that our audience can also take a short break and escape from the workload or stress temporarily and recall some of their best moments while listening to these audio recordings.
When it comes to putting together all the elements on the website, we agreed on having the main part equally divided into four parts, columns. As the background images we used pictures of ourselves enjoying what we find to be an important aspect of our life. Initially we struggled with resizing the page, but we succeeded. When the user hovers over one of us, the column gets colored and he/she will have the possibility of clicking on the icon and listening to the related audio. In order to give a hint that the icon is clickable, we made it enlarge a little bit when hovered over. Although quite simplistic, we can definitely say we are very happy and satisfied with the final look.
Reflection/Evaluation: This should bookend the initial concept and talk about whether your expectations and goals were met in the process of building the final working version.
In the beginning of the brainstorming process we were quite confused as to what we wanted to present and how we wanted to present it. After discussing it, we realized that there was a way to present the things that were important to us but in an auditory way. The next roadblock was how we would represent it visually. We tied the idea of cherished items to memory and came up with the black and white shift. As a result of good planning and a lot of discussion, we achieved most of the expectations that we set before we started making the project. The hover effect is smooth and the color-changing effect worked well.
